Introduction To Backend

Command line techniques
command prompt/terminal/command line interface
commands we shall use frequently:
1. cd- change directory: Syntax -cd{name of the folder}
                          USAGE: cd Backend
2.mkdir - make directory
         USAGE:mkdir test
3. rmdir - remove directory
           USAGE: rmdir test   
4. cd.. - to move up in the folder directory three
5. ls : to list directory  

The package.json file: this file monitors every file in our project directory.To create this file, type: npm init

A module is a file that is exporting some codes.
we use require to get the exact module we want.

Reading and writig to files:
To read and write to files in nodejs,we use one of nodejs core modules known as FS
To read files,we use a method called readFileSync() eg: fs.readFileSync()This method takes in two argument
1. The full part of the we want to read.
2. The character encoding because we are dealing with binary data eg: "utf-8"

readFileSync is a synchronous operation.

To write files, we use: writeFileSync() method
this takes two parameters:
1. the name of the file we want to write to
2.the data

Module.export
module.export is a Global object
NB:
1. In node, Global is the global object
2. In DOM, window is the global object


classwork
1. use the fs module to 
2. read and write files
3. create two other files
4. in one, create a function that performs an operation of adding two numbers together
5. now export this function 
6. invoke this function in the second file as well as passing in the necessary arguments(two numbers) 


Express JS and Templating Engines
what is express json
express is a minimal and flexibke node.js web application framework that provides a robust set of festures for web and mobile applications.it is used to create servers.
it is a layer built on top of the node.js that helps manage servers and routes.
to create a server using express,we have to call/require the express module.

NB: we need to store all the functionalities returned from the express module in a variable conventionally called app.

Handling Requests and Responses
clients and servers: clients make request to the servers and servers send responses back to the client.
nodejs handles this back and forth process
we create a server which is just a file containing codes that listens for requests comimg from the frontend.

we have a method that listens for the requests coming from the browser called LISTEN

now this method takes in two arguments:
1. port - to listen on
2. callback function - that runs  when the node application is connected to the browser

Understanding and Working with routes
A route is a section of express code that associates a HTTP verb(GET,POST,PUT,DELETE,etc) a url path/pattern and  a function that is called to handle that pattern.

path:
/ is always taken as the homepage or landing page of our website.

Function in the route
The callback function in the route takes in two parameters
1. request
2.response

processing POST requests with body-parser module
POST is used to send data to a server(from the frontend )to create/update a resource(database).

body-parser module is a module that comes along whenever we install the express(package from express)

what is body-parser?
express body-parser is an npm module used to process data sent in an HTTP request body.
NB:
1. it provides four middleware for parsing 
a. JSON
B. text
c. URL-encoded
d. raw data sets over an HTTP request body

Middleware is a function

express middleware is a function that has access to the request(req) and response(res), and the next function in the application's request response cycle. The next function is a function in the express router which when invoked executes he middleware succeeding the current middleware

to install globally, we use npm install-g nodemon




JSON : javascript object notation
it is one of the ways in which data can be stored in a file using json format


Te fetch api:
fetch is based on async and await


Nosql and sql database
 NoSql:are non tabular databases
 types of nosql databases:
 1. document database
 2.key value databases
 3.wide-column stores
4. graph database


Nosql is also used for querying a database
Crud operation:
C create
R read
U update
D delete

MongoDB Commands:
1. show dbs - this means show database
2. use [database name]- it is used to switch betwen databases.
3. show collections- to view the collections in a database
4. help - to get help
5.  .find() - to retrieve documents in a collections



